LECTURE NOTES
=============


1. Data
Definition: Are simply a value are set of values of different type which is called data types like string, integer, char etc. or collection of information.

2. Structure (Concept)
Definition: Way of organizing information, so that it is easier to use.
Visual Representation:
Figure 2: Diagram illustrating: Way of organizing information, so that it is easier to use.

3. Data Objects
Definition: A unique location in computer memory that contains the values.

4. Program
Definition: Program is a key concept in this domain. It includes components such as Algorithm, Data Structure.
  - Algorithm: Step by Step procedure to solve a particular function.
  - Data Structure: A particular way of organizing data in a computer so that it can be used efficiently.

5. Efficiency
Definition: Allows data to be used efficiently.

6. Element Relationship
Definition: Consideration of elements stored and their relationship to each other.

7. Data Manipulation
Definition: A scheme for organizing related pieces of information that can be manipulated.
  - Data Structure Operations: Commonly used operations performed on data structure.

8. Why Data Structure
Definition: Necessity to solve complex requirements in an efficient way.
  - Complex Human Requirements: Human requirement with computer are going to complex day by day.
  - Fastest Solutions: Provides fastest solution of human requirements.
  - Efficient Solutions for Complex Problems: Provides efficient solution of complex problem.
  - Space Complexity Solution: Provides solution for Space Complexity.
  - Time Complexity Solution: Provides solution for Time Complexity.

9. Complex Human Requirements
Definition: Human requirement with computer are going to complex day by day.

10. Fastest Solutions
Definition: Provides fastest solution of human requirements.

11. Efficient Solutions For Complex Problems
Definition: Provides efficient solution of complex problem.

12. Logical/Mathematical Description
Definition: Logical or mathematical description of the structure.
  - Data Structure: A particular way of organizing data in a computer so that it can be used efficiently.

13. Structure Implementation
Definition: Implementation of structure on a computer using different computer languages.
  - Data Structure: A particular way of organizing data in a computer so that it can be used efficiently.
  - C++ Language: A computer language mentioned for implementation purpose in the syllabus.

14. C++ Language
Definition: A computer language mentioned for implementation purpose in the syllabus.

15. Quantitative Analysis
Definition: Determining the amount of memory needed to store the structure and the time required to process the structure.
  - Data Structure: A particular way of organizing data in a computer so that it can be used efficiently.

16. Data Structure Classification
Definition: Categorization of data structures into types.
16.1 Non-Primitive Data Structure
Data structures that are derived from the primitive data structures.
  - Homogeneous/Heterogeneous Grouping: Structuring of a group of homogeneous (same type) or heterogeneous (different type) data items.
  - Linear Data Structure: A data structure that has homogeneous elements and where elements are in a sequence.
  - Non-Linear Data Structure: A data structure in which data item is connected to several other data items.
  - Primitive Data Structure: Data structures that are directly operated upon the machine-level instructions.
  - Data Structure: A particular way of organizing data in a computer so that it can be used efficiently.

17. Built-In/Predefined Data Types
Definition: Standard / Predefine/ Built data types in of any one of the computer languages.

18. Elements In A Sequence
Definition: Elements are in a sequence and form a liner series.
Visual Representation:
Figure 18: Diagram illustrating: Elements are in a sequence and form a liner series.

19. Hierarchical/Parent-Child Relationship
Definition: May exhibit either a hierarchical relationship or parent child relationship.

20. Static Data Structure
Definition: The size of the structure is fixed.
  - Array: A non-primitive data structure that includes single dimensional and multi-dimensional types, and is an example of static and linear data structures.

21. Dynamic Data Structure
Definition: The size of the structure in not fixed and can be modified during the operations performed on it.
  - Linked List: A non-primitive data structure, an example of dynamic and linear data structures.

22. Data Structure Operations
Definition: Commonly used operations performed on data structure.
  - Traversing: Processing each element in the list.
  - Search: Finding the location of the element with a given value or the Selection record with a given key.
  - Insertion: Adding a new element to the list.
  - Deletion: Removing an elements from the list.
  - Sorting: Arranging the elements in some type of order.
  - Merging: Combining two list into a single list.
  - Data Structure: A particular way of organizing data in a computer so that it can be used efficiently.

23. Array
Definition: A non-primitive data structure that includes single dimensional and multi-dimensional types, and is an example of static and linear data structures.

24. Linked List
Definition: A non-primitive data structure, an example of dynamic and linear data structures.

25. Stack
Definition: An example of a linear data structure.

26. Queue
Definition: An example of a linear data structure.

27. Tree
Definition: An example of a non-linear data structure.
Visual Representation:
Figure 27: Diagram illustrating: An example of a non-linear data structure.

28. Graph
Definition: An example of a non-linear data structure.
Visual Representation:
Figure 28: Diagram illustrating: An example of a non-linear data structure.

29. Hash Table
Definition: An example of a non-linear data structure.

30. Integer
Definition: A type of primitive data structure.
Visual Representation:
Figure 30: Diagram illustrating: A type of primitive data structure.

31. Character
Definition: A type of primitive data structure.

32. Float
Definition: A type of primitive data structure.

33. Pointers
Definition: A type of primitive data structure.

34. Data Structures (Subject)
Definition: a new subject that is data structures.
  - Data (Core Concept): a prerequisite before understanding what data structure is.
  - Data Structures Importance: the reason why companies are preferring this subject over other subjects, as it is very important and useful in day-to-day life and used more frequently.

35. Data (Core Concept)
Definition: a prerequisite before understanding what data structure is.
  - Data vs. Information Distinction: a distinction between data and an information, which is a very confusing topic.
  - Data (Dictionary Definition): quantities, characters or symbols on which operations are performed by a computer, which may be stored and transmitted in the form of electrical signals and recorded on magnetic, optical or mechanical recording media.

36. Data (Dictionary Definition)
Definition: quantities, characters or symbols on which operations are performed by a computer, which may be stored and transmitted in the form of electrical signals and recorded on magnetic, optical or mechanical recording media.
  - Operations on Data: operations performed by a computer on quantities, characters or symbols.
  - Storage and Transmission of Data: data may be stored and transmitted in the form of electrical signals and recorded on magnetic, optical or mechanical recording media.
Visual Representation:
Figure 36: Diagram illustrating: Are simply a value are set of values of different type which is called data types like string, integer, char etc. or collection of information.

37. Operations On Data
Definition: operations performed by a computer on quantities, characters or symbols.

38. Storage And Transmission Of Data
Definition: data may be stored and transmitted in the form of electrical signals and recorded on magnetic, optical or mechanical recording media.

39. Unprocessed Data (Example)
Definition: just a collection of characters or symbols where one won't be able to understand it properly.
  - Processed Data: data that has been manipulated, such as reversing a whole string, to make it understandable.
  - Systematic Data Arrangement: arranging data in a systematic way so that it gets a structure and becomes meaningful.

40. Processed Data
Definition: data that has been manipulated, such as reversing a whole string, to make it understandable.
  - Information: meaningful or processed data.

41. Meaningful Information (Goal)
Definition: information from which some meaning can be extracted, making it quite understandable.

42. Data Management
Definition: managing data in such a way so that it can produce some meaningful information.
  - Meaningful Information (Goal): information from which some meaning can be extracted, making it quite understandable.
  - Data Structure (Definition): the systematic way to organize data so that it can be used efficiently.

43. Data Structure (Definition)
Definition: the systematic way to organize data so that it can be used efficiently.
  - Systematic Data Arrangement: arranging data in a systematic way so that it gets a structure and becomes meaningful.
  - Arrays (Example Data Structure): a classical data structure, thought of as a sequence or collection of some symbols, characters, integers, or floats.
  - Stack Data Structure: a data structure used in implementing the redo and undo feature.
  - Two-Dimensional Array: a data structure (e.g., 37x40) used to store pixel information (each pixel's color) for bitmap images.
  - Graph Data Structure: a data structure used to store friendship information on social networking sites.
  - Efficiency (Time/Space): using data efficiently in terms of time as well as space.

44. Efficiency (Time/Space)
Definition: using data efficiently in terms of time as well as space.

45. Undo/Redo Feature
Definition: a famous feature in applications like Google Docs, PowerPoint, or Microsoft Word that uses stack data structures.
  - Undo Stack: a stack where each information entered gets stored; elements are popped out when control z (undo) is pressed.
  - Redo Stack: a stack where elements popped from the undo stack are placed; used when control y (redo) is pressed to get the operation again.

46. Undo Stack
Definition: a stack where each information entered gets stored; elements are popped out when control z (undo) is pressed.
  - Redo Stack: a stack where elements popped from the undo stack are placed; used when control y (redo) is pressed to get the operation again.

47. Redo Stack
Definition: a stack where elements popped from the undo stack are placed; used when control y (redo) is pressed to get the operation again.

48. Bitmap Images
Definition: images stored as a series of tiny dots called pixels.
  - Pixels: tiny dots or small squares, each assigned a color and then arranged in a pattern to form an image.
Visual Representation:
Figure 48: Diagram illustrating: images stored as a series of tiny dots called pixels.

49. Graph Nodes
Definition: individuals (e.g., James, Mark, Leah, Lucy) represented in a graph data structure.

50. Graph Edges
Definition: connections or relationships between individuals (nodes) represented in a graph data structure.

51. Data Structures Importance
Definition: the reason why companies are preferring this subject over other subjects, as it is very important and useful in day-to-day life and used more frequently.
