The job of the lexical analyzer is to find out the meaning of every lexim. For an instance, this word analysis means a detailed examination of anything complex in order to understand its nature or to determine its essential features. For this particular expression, these are the CFD production rules that the parser will use in order to form the parse tree. It means an expression can be assigned to an identifier and the expression has to be followed by the statement terminator that is the semicolon. So using this production rule from e, we can derive t. The yield of the parse tree would be id equals id plus id into id semicolon. And since the yield of a parse tree and an expression are the same, the syntax analyzer will not produce any errors. The parse tree produced by the syntax. analyzer is given to semantic analysis phase, and the. semantic analyzer, in turn, produces the semantically verified parse tree. Ex is actually the extended version of the AX register, which is a combination of AH and AL. There is the data word pointer, pointing at the register-based pointer RBP with the scaling factor of minus eight. D word PTR RBP minus 12 is pointing to the value stored by the variable C. oving the content of the EAX register to the address pointed by the data word pointer RBP minus 16, which is actually the address of the variable X. So this is how that arithmetic expression of our pure high-level language code finally gets translated into this assembly language code segment. A graph is shown in the form of a wave a black and white photo of a plane flying through the sky an image of a black background with white letters and arrows intermediate code generator code optimization. Images of a computer screen with a message the logo of the american association a red square with a white square in the middle. Intermediate Code Intermediate. We te te. Porse Tree. Generation. fede. Feede: fede:fede:feede:feedinge: feedinge: Feed:feed:feeding:feeding, feeding:feeding. Feed:feeding; feeding:feed;feeding:feed, feeding, feeding; feeding;feeding;feeding.